Course1/README.md, before:

# Course 1 – Python Basics

This folder contains mini-projects I built while learning the fundamentals of Python.  
Each project focuses on core concepts like variables, input/output, loops, and conditionals.

---

## 📂 Projects

1. **Calculator**  
   - Performs basic arithmetic operations like **addition**, **subtraction**, **multiplication**, **division**,**exponents**,**modulus**.
   - [Calculator](calculator.py)

   
‎**📝 What I learned:**
‎- How to take user input and convert it to numbers.  
‎- Using conditionals (`if` / `elif` / `else`) to perform different operations.  
‎- Handling invalid choices with simple error checks.  

‎
‎**⚡ What was difficult for me:**  
‎- Remembering when to use `elif` vs multiple `if` statements.  
‎- Making sure division worked correctly (e.g., dividing by zero issue).  

‎
‎**✅ What I improved:**
‎- Got comfortable with conditional chains
-Learned how to use `try/except` effectively.      



2. **Even-Odd Finder**  
   - Checks if a number is odd or even.
   - [Even-Odd Finder](even_odd_finder.py)


‎**📝 What I learned:**  
‎- Using the modulus operator (`%`) to check divisibility.  
‎- Wrapping code in a loop so the program runs multiple times until the user quits.  

‎
‎**⚡ What was difficult for me:** 
‎- Handling invalid input (letters, symbols) without crashing the program.  
‎- Deciding when to use `break` vs `continue`. 

‎
‎**✅ What I improved:**  
‎- Made the program user-friendly with a repeat option.  



3. **Multiplication Table Generator**  
   - Generates the multiplication table of a number.  
   - Can choose how far the table goes (e.g., up to 10, 20, etc.).
   - [Multiplication Table Generator](multiplication_table_generator.py)


‎**📝 What I learned:** 
‎- Defining and calling a function with parameters.  
‎- Looping through a range of numbers (`while`) and incrementing values.

‎
‎**⚡ What was difficult for me:** 
‎- At first, I returned values instead of printing inside the function, which stopped my loop from working correctly.  
‎- I also misplaced `num2 = num2 + 1` outside the loop, which caused an infinite loop. 

‎
‎**✅ What I improved:**  
‎- Understood the difference between `print` and `return`.  
‎- Fixed my loop logic and indentation errors.  
‎- Gained confidence in defining and using functions.  
‎


4. **Number Guessing Game** 
   - Guesses a random number until correct.  
   - Practice with loops and conditions.

---

## 🚀 How to Run

Run any project file with:  

```bash
python filename.py

Commit message:

Add Number Guessing Game project to Course1 README.md

Course1/README.md, after:

# Course 1 – Python Basics

This folder contains mini-projects I built while learning the fundamentals of Python.  
Each project focuses on core concepts like variables, input/output, loops, and conditionals.

---

## 📂 Projects

1. **Calculator**  
   - Performs basic arithmetic operations like **addition**, **subtraction**, **multiplication**, **division**,**exponents**,**modulus**.
   - [Calculator](calculator.py)

   
‎**📝 What I learned:**
‎- How to take user input and convert it to numbers.  
‎- Using conditionals (`if` / `elif` / `else`) to perform different operations.  
‎- Handling invalid choices with simple error checks.  

‎
‎**⚡ What was difficult for me:**  
‎- Remembering when to use `elif` vs multiple `if` statements.  
‎- Making sure division worked correctly (e.g., dividing by zero issue).  

‎
‎**✅ What I improved:**
‎- Got comfortable with conditional chains
-Learned how to use `try/except` effectively.      



2. **Even-Odd Finder**  
   - Checks if a number is odd or even.
   - [Even-Odd Finder](even_odd_finder.py)


‎**📝 What I learned:**  
‎- Using the modulus operator (`%`) to check divisibility.  
‎- Wrapping code in a loop so the program runs multiple times until the user quits.  

‎
‎**⚡ What was difficult for me:** 
‎- Handling invalid input (letters, symbols) without crashing the program.  
‎- Deciding when to use `break` vs `continue`. 

‎
‎**✅ What I improved:**  
‎- Made the program user-friendly with a repeat option.  



3. **Multiplication Table Generator**  
   - Generates the multiplication table of a number.  
   - Can choose how far the table goes (e.g., up to 10, 20, etc.).
   - [Multiplication Table Generator](multiplication_table_generator.py)


‎**📝 What I learned:** 
‎- Defining and calling a function with parameters.  
‎- Looping through a range of numbers (`while`) and incrementing values.

‎
‎**⚡ What was difficult for me:** 
‎- At first, I returned values instead of printing inside the function, which stopped my loop from working correctly.  
‎- I also misplaced `num2 = num2 + 1` outside the loop, which caused an infinite loop. 

‎
‎**✅ What I improved:**  
‎- Understood the difference between `print` and `return`.  
‎- Fixed my loop logic and indentation errors.  
‎- Gained confidence in defining and using functions.  
‎


4. **Number Guessing Game** 
   - Guesses a random number until correct.  
   - Practice with loops and conditions.
   -[Number Guessing Game](number_guessing_game.py)


‎**📝 What I learned:**  
‎- Using the `random` module to generate random numbers.  
‎- Combining loops (`while` + `for`) for repeated gameplay.  
‎- Using `break` to stop a loop early when a condition is met.  
‎- Handling invalid input with `try/except`.  
‎- Designing basic game logic with replay functionality.
‎


‎**⚡ What was difficult for me:** 
‎- This was the most overwhelming and challenging project I’ve built so far.
‎- Took a lot of trials and errors and spent 2 whole hours figuring it out.
‎- Managing nested loops, break statements, and replay logic was tricky at first.
‎- Handling invalid input without breaking the game required careful attention.
‎


‎**✅ What I improved:**  
‎- Gained confidence in using loops effectively.  
‎- Learned how to control the flow of a program with `break` and `while True`.  
‎- Understood how to combine multiple concepts (loops, conditionals, random numbers, error handling) in one project.


## 🚀 How to Run

Run any project file with:  

```bash
python filename.py
